Preemptible recovery from a checkpointing file [BW-460] (#6137)
broadinstitute/cromwell: docs/optimizations/CheckpointFiles.md

# The 'Checkpoint File' Optimization

## Overview

Available in Cromwell version 55 and higher.

### Description

> Specifying a `checkpointFile` value in a task's `runtime` section designates a checkpoint file which will occasionally be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifying a `checkpointFile` value in a task's `runtime` section designates a checkpoint file which will periodically be
```

> copied out to cloud storage. This file will then be restored automatically on subsequent attempts if the job is interrupted.

Reviewer 2: We should also add here that default checkpoint interval is 10 minutes

*Note:* Additional charges may accrue storing the checkpoint file, and by transferring it to and from the cloud. This

> should be balanced against the performance and cost benefits of being able to restore from the checkpoint when preemptible VMs are interrupted.   

Reviewer 2: 💯

### Example

The following WDL demonstrates the use of the `checkpointFile` optimization. It has a command which is checkpoint-aware:

* It starts by attempting to restore state from the `my_checkpoint` file (or starts at `1` if the checkpoint is empty)
* Then it counts up to 100, printing out the current counter value and a date timestamp at each value.

To make the checkpointing work, the `runtime` section specifies `checkpointFile: "my_checkpoint"`.

```wdl
version 1.0

workflow count_wf {
  call count { input: count_to = 100 }
}

task count {
  input {
    Int count_to
  }

  command <<<
    # Read from the my_checkpoint file if there's content there:
    FROM_CKPT=$(cat my_checkpoint | tail -n1 | awk '{ print $1 }')
    FROM_CKPT=${FROM_CKPT:-1}

    echo '--' >> my_checkpoint
    for i in $(seq $FROM_CKPT ~{count_to})
    do
      echo $i $(date) >> my_checkpoint
      sleep 4
    done
  >>>

  runtime {
    docker: "ubuntu:latest"
    preemptible: 3
    checkpointFile: "my_checkpoint"
  }

  output {
    Array[String] out = read_lines("my_checkpoint")
  }
}
```

## Backend Support

> The `checkpointFile` attribute is currently understood by and implemented for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cromwell supports the `checkpointFile` attribute on the following backends:
```
